Update the Swan Lake alpha5 release note for language changes (#159)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-release: release-notes/swan-lake-alpha5-release-note.md

#### New Features

##### `lang.xml:data()` Lang Library Function

> The `lang.xml:data()`  lang library function has been introduced aiming to replace the usage of the `lang.xml:getContent()` function to get the character data from an `xml` value. This function returns the character data of a `xml:Text` value as a string. For an `xml:Element` value this returns the concatenation of the result of invoking this function over the children of the element. Calling `lang.xml:data()` on comments, processing instructions, and empty sequences returns an empty string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `lang.xml:data()`  lang library function has been introduced aiming at replacinging the usage of the `lang.xml:getContent()` function to get the character data from an `xml` value. This function returns the character data of an `xml:Text` value as a string. For an `xml:Element` value, this returns the concatenation of the result of invoking this function over the children of the element. Calling `lang.xml:data()` on comments, processing instructions, and empty sequences returns an empty string.
```

Reviewer 2: @rdhananjaya do we need the part about `lang.xml:getContent()` here? It is only for text that it is no longer available, right? Can't we just say

How about
```suggestion
The `lang.xml:data()`  lang library function has been introduced to get the character data from an `xml` value. This function returns the character data of an `xml:Text` value as a string. For an `xml:Element` value this returns the concatenation of the result of invoking this function over the children of the element. Calling `lang.xml:data()` on comments, processing instructions, and empty sequences returns an empty string.
```

##### `lang.xml:getDescendants()` Lang Library Function

> The `lang.xml:getDescendants()` lang library function has been introduced to retrieve a sequence of the descendant elements for a given element, in document order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `lang.xml:getDescendants()` lang library function has been introduced to retrieve a sequence of the descendant elements for a given element in the documented order.
```

Reviewer 2: I believe "document order" is used here as a specific XML term. See "document order" in https://www.w3.org/TR/2004/REC-DOM-Level-3-Core-20040407/glossary.html.

@pcnfernando @rdhananjaya can you please confirm?

Reviewer 3: Yes, it's taken as in the XML context

##### Bitwise Operations as Constant Expressions

Bitwise binary operations `<<`, `>>`, `>>>`, `^`, `&`, `|` are now allowed as constant expressions.

```ballerina
const BASE = 0x10;
const int SHIFTED = (BASE << 2) | 0xa;
```

#### Improvements

##### Improvements to the XML Literal

XML template literals now support the inclusion of multiple XML items of the same `xml` subtype as well as different `xml` subtypes.

```ballerina
xml x1 = xml `<ele>item</ele><!--comment-->text<?foo?>`;
xml<xml:Element> x2 = xml `<ele>item1</ele><ele>item2</ele>`;
xml<xml:Comment> x3 = xml `<!--comment1--><!--comment2-->`;
xml<xml:ProcessingInstruction> x4 = xml `<?foo?><?bar?>`;
string interpolation = "Interpolation";
xml<xml:Text> x5 = xml `text ${interpolation}`;
```

##### Normalization of XML Attribute Values

> In XML template literals, character references within XML attribute values are now normalized to the referring character. For example, the attribute value `e.attr` in the following example is now `a&b`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In XML template literals, character references within XML attribute values are now normalized to the referring character. For example, the attribute `e.attr` value in the following example is now `a&b`.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In XML template literals, character references within XML attribute values are now normalized to the referring character. For example, the value of the `e.attr` attribute in the following example is now `a&b`.
```

```ballerina
xml:Element e = xml `<elem attr="a&amp;b" />`;
```

##### Breaking Changes
- The `lang.array:lastIndexOf` and `lang.array:indexOf` lang library functions can only be used with arrays of which the element types are subtypes of the `anydata` type.
- A compilation error occurs if the field visibility qualifiers in the including type and the included type with object type inclusion are not the same.
- Remote method call action cannot be used to call non-remote methods.
- The `xml` and `readonly` type-descriptors can no longer be used as expressions. A reference to a type definition defined with such type-descriptors needs to be used instead.

> - The argument passed to the second parameter of the `attach` method of the listener for service declarations has been fixed as follows. If there is no attach point in the service `()` (nil) is passed as the argument. If the attach point is the root resource path (“/”) an empty array is passed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The argument passed to the second parameter of the `attach` method of the listener for service declarations has been fixed as follows. If there is no attachment point in the service, `()` (nil) is passed as the argument. If the attachment point is the root resource path (“/”), an empty array is passed.
```

Reviewer 2: attach-point comes from the spec, shall we say attach-point?

```suggestion
- The argument passed to the second parameter of the `attach` method of the listener for service declarations has been fixed as follows. If there is no attach-point in the service, `()` (nil) is passed as the argument. If the attach-point is the root resource path ("/"), an empty array is passed.
```

- The `lang.xml:getContent()` function no longer accepts `xml:Text` as an argument. The new `lang.xml:data()` function can be used instead.

> - `lang.value` functions cannot be called on expressions of type `object`. Function call syntax (`value:func(obj)`) can be used instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `lang.value` function cannot be called on expressions of type `object`. The function call syntax (`value:func(obj)`) can be used instead.
```

Author: `lang.value` is a library with many functions.

> - The `lang.stream:reduce()` lang library function will only return the reduced value or an error (if the completion type includes error). It no longer returns a nil `()` value. The return type of `lang.stream:reduce()` has been updated accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `lang.stream:reduce()` lang library function will only return the reduced value or an error (if the completion type includes an error). It no longer returns a nil `()` value. The return type of `lang.stream:reduce()` has been updated accordingly.
```

Reviewer 2: We can say
```suggestion
- The `lang.stream:reduce()` lang library function will only return the reduced value or an error (if the completion type includes a subtype of `error`). It no longer returns a nil `()` value. The return type of `lang.stream:reduce()` has been updated accordingly.
```

> - An issue where the complement of numeric literals returned incorrect values has been fixed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The issue of the complement of numeric literals returning incorrect values has been fixed.
```

Reviewer 2: What we trying to say is that there was issue in this particular feature that has now been fixed. 

When we say "The issue of ...", IMO it kinda implies that we're talking about a specific issue that the user knows. Applicable to the next few points too.

Reviewer 2: How about
```suggestion
- An issue with the complement of numeric literals where incorrect values were returned has been fixed.
```

Author: Although in github all of these are issues. But we use the topic **Bug Fixes** in the release note. IMO we can instead say *bug* instead of *issue*

Reviewer: It doesn't sound correct to say "An issue". If we want to specify should say "the issue of...".

If not, since we are not linking to the issue also, we can just mention the fix without emphasizing whether it is a bug or an issue. For example,

"The complement of numeric literals do not return incorrect values anymore".

Reviewer 2: IMO, that is too generic, we need to say that there was a specific issue in this particular scenario.

Why can't we say "An issue with the complement of numeric literals"?

There can be multiple issues with "complement of numeric literals", this is one particular issue.

Author: I like the idea of not emphasizing whether an issue or a bug. But that is better if these are under **Bug Fixes** section.
Problem with stating that "do not return incorrect values anymore" is we are capturing a very large scope, but technically we have only looked at one particular issue related to the area.

Reviewer: +1 to have it like that under bug fixes.

Reviewer 2: But like I mentioned previously, the reason why we are explicitly talking about them is because they are breaking changes. 

What we are trying to convey here is that the values returned may now change.

Reviewer 2: Also, most of the changes here are bug fixes.

Reviewer 2: How about

```suggestion
- A fix for a bug related to the complement of numeric literals may cause the result to change.
```

Author: I think it is better to keep it as it is. 
 > may cause the result to change
 This wording may make the change untrustworthy to the user.

Author: ```suggestion
- An issue causing the complement of numeric literals to return incorrect values has been fixed.
```
@praneesha @MaryamZi

> - An issue that allowed negation with numeric literals has been fixed. Negation can be used only with `boolean` values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The issue of allowing negation with numeric literals has been fixed. Negation can now be used only with `boolean` values.
```

Author: Similar to comment https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-release/pull/159#discussion_r616726472

Author: ```suggestion
- Negation cannot be used with numeric literals anymore. Negation can only be used with `boolean` values now.
```

Reviewer 2: Let's just say
```suggestion
- Negation has been disallowed with numeric literals.
```

Author: +1

> - Subtyping rules have been fixed to consider the `never` type, which denotes an empty set of values, as a subtype of any type `T`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Subtyping rules have been fixed to consider the `never` type, which denotes an empty set of values as a subtype of any type `T`.
```

- Relational expressions with lists have been fixed to consider the relative order of lists with different sizes.

> - An issue where a non-error value did not match the wildcard match pattern at runtime when the matched expression’s static type included error has been fixed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The issue of a non-error value not matching the wildcard match pattern at runtime when the matched expression’s static type included an error has been fixed.
```

Author: Similar to comment https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-release/pull/159#discussion_r616726472

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Any non-error value will match the wildcard match pattern at runtime even when the matched expression's static type includes a subtype of `error`.
```

> - An issue with Isolation analysis where transfer out validation did not happen when `self` was used in a return statement of an isolated object method has been fixed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Issue of the Isolation analysis in which the transfer out validation did not happen when `self` was used in a return statement of an isolated object method has been fixed.
```

Author: Similar to comment https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-release/pull/159#discussion_r616726472

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An invalid attempt to transfer out a value via a return statement that uses `self` in an isolated object method results in a compilation error.
```

> - An issue where the method qualifiers were now being set for a `readonly` and `class` intersection has been fixed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The issue of the method qualifiers being set for a `readonly` and `class` intersection has been fixed.
```

Author: Similar to comment https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-release/pull/159#discussion_r616726472

Author: ```suggestion
- An issue where the method qualifiers were not being set for a `readonly` and `class` intersection has been fixed.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In a `readonly` and `class` intersection, the method qualifiers are now preserved from the class.
```

##### Bitwise Operations as Constant Expressions

Bitwise binary operations `<<`, `>>`, `>>>`, `^`, `&`, `|` are now allowed as constant expressions.

```ballerina
const BASE = 0x10;
const int SHIFTED = (BASE << 2) | 0xa;
```

#### Improvements

##### Improvements to the XML Literal

XML template literals now support the inclusion of multiple XML items of the same `xml` subtype as well as different `xml` subtypes.

```ballerina
xml x1 = xml `<ele>item</ele><!--comment-->text<?foo?>`;
xml<xml:Element> x2 = xml `<ele>item1</ele><ele>item2</ele>`;
xml<xml:Comment> x3 = xml `<!--comment1--><!--comment2-->`;
xml<xml:ProcessingInstruction> x4 = xml `<?foo?><?bar?>`;
string interpolation = "Interpolation";
xml<xml:Text> x5 = xml `text ${interpolation}`;
```

##### Normalization of XML Attribute Values
In XML template literals, character references within XML attribute values are now normalized to the referring character. For example, the value of the `e.attr` attribute in the following example is now `a&b`.

```ballerina
xml:Element e = xml `<elem attr="a&amp;b" />`;
```

> ##### Breaking Changes

Author: ```suggestion
#### Breaking Changes
```
